The Why
	Heart related illnesses are a significant cause of death in both the UK 
	and the US (about 25% of all deaths on a given year)

	Okay but why the UK?
		- Data baby, so much data
		- about 125G of data unzipped for the prescribing data
		- many other useful but small datasets that can linked
		- Not too dissimilar from the US other than the fact that they have universal healthcare
		- The fact that they have universal health care

The What:
	Prescribing data:
		2010 to mid 2018
		broken down by drug code, month, and practice.

	Other data sets:

		Population:
			2011 to 2017
			by age group, outer code, year, density

		Mortality:	
			2013 to 2017
			46 most common causes of death, outer code, year

		Index of Deprivation:
			by outer code, only two years 2010, 2015
			employment, income, health, crime, housing


The How

	Why use spark?
		Data Science is needed for interactive querying.
		Most Queries are run once or twice, hence being able to write fast is important. 
		Need for distributed execution
		integration with python ecosystem and all those sweet sweet data science packages


	Preprocessing
		initial processing required using data streaming technique to coarsen the data.
		processing about 1.3 G chunks at a time to reduce the size to 44G. During this processing 
		changing the granuality from per practice to per outer code


		Mortality:
			transform from MSOA to outer code

		ID :
			LSOA to outer code

		Population : 
			postcode to outer code for 2011 census data 
			MSOA to outer code for the other years

	Initial Querying:
		SparkSQL and HDFS with a 3 Node cluster on cloudlab:
			Computed basic correlations
			basic queries over the data
			nothing really interesing came from this other than a bunch of OOM errors

	
	Slicing:
		SparkSQL with a single Node on cloudlab:
			Used to do basic data transformation and slicing to make the 
			size for manageable to for pandas


	Finer Grain processing:
		Ipython, pandas, and scipy
		
		Throwing the kitchen sink at this shit
		Graphing alot
		linear regression,
		correlations at what not
		had to look at a lot of different granularities
		Heat Maps


		Important takeaway : data visualization is EXTREMELY important. Spark has very little to support this

		also memory useage is terrible


The Results:
	Drugs are a zipfian like distribution.
		That is a few drugs account for the vast majority of drugs prescribed. Note that this differentiates
		by dosage and pill type


	Overall the rate of heart medications being prescribed is increasing. While the number of heart related 
	deaths is actually decreasing (slightly)

	There a huge amount of varition in the trends for each drugs:
		Some drugs are very homogenous in terms of pretty much everywhere in the country 
		has the same trend for prescribing rates. Others are all over the place.

		But why do they differ?
			The 10% rule of Thumb:
				EVERYTHIG IS CONFOUNDED

			notable correlations:
				% of population over 65
			
			pretty much everything has a statistically significant correlation between the 
			the rate at which drugs are being prescribed.

			Positive correlations between deaths and the drugs used to treat the cause of death




			

	





